Blog: JS and Search (I/O 19) (#947)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/javascript-and-google-search-io-2019/index.md

---

> title: JavaScript and Google Search

Author: I'm not a huge fan of "JS-driven apps", WDYT about my alternative proposal?

> title: JavaScript and Google Search

Reviewer: Oh, I like it! Much improved.

subhead: Updates and insights from Google I/O 2019
authors:
  - martinsplitt
  - ekharvey
date: 2019-06-03
hero: hero.png
alt: A website with placeholder images instead of real cat images in the URL inspection tool within Search Console.
description: |
  We introduced a new Googlebot at Google I/O and took this opportunity to discuss improvements and best practices for JavaScript web apps in Google Search.
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - seo
  - discoverability
  - javascript
---

## Meet the evergreen Googlebot

This year Google I/O brought exciting news around Google Search and JavaScript: the much-awaited announcement of the [new evergreen Googlebot](https://webmasters.googleblog.com/2019/05/the-new-evergreen-googlebot.html).

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
  <img src="evergreen-googlebot.png" alt="Googlebot holding the Chrome logo" style="max-width: 400px;">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Googlebot is now running a modern Chromium rendering engine.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> Googlebot now uses a modern Chromium engine to render websites for Google Search. On top of that, we test newer versions of Chromium to keep Googlebot updated in the future. We will update Googlebot within a few weeks of a stable Chrome release. This announcement is big news for web developers and SEOs, because it marks the arrival of [1000+ new features](https://caniuse.com/#compare=chrome+41,chrome+74), such as ES6+, IntersectionObserver, and Web Components v1 in Googlebot. 

Author: I'd stick to "features in Googlebot". Not sure why there's a dash in "Web Components v1-in Googlebot" though

> Googlebot now uses a modern Chromium engine to render websites for Google Search. On top of that, we test newer versions of Chromium to keep Googlebot updated in the future. We will update Googlebot within a few weeks of a stable Chrome release. This announcement is big news for web developers and SEOs, because it marks the arrival of [1000+ new features](https://caniuse.com/#compare=chrome+41,chrome+74), such as ES6+, IntersectionObserver, and Web Components v1 in Googlebot. 

Reviewer: It's the closing em dash to match up with the opening em dash at the start of the list. Given the complexity of the sentence, I thought setting off the list with dashes would make it easier to recognize it as such.

> While the [session on new and upcoming features in Google Search](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ufcijo46LCU&list=PLKoqnv2vTMUPsSoDoVlUlgVkyh0OfjB-x) focused on new and upcoming features, we also had a session on JavaScript and Google Search. In this session we shared more details on improving JavaScript-driven web apps. We looked at:

Author: Very nice, thanks for the suggestion!

*   Feature detection and error handling
*   Googlebot's pipeline for crawling, rendering and indexing
*   Rendering strategies
*   Testing tools for your website in Google Search
*   Common challenges and possible solutions
*   Best practices for SEO in JavaScript web apps

Here's the full video:

<div style="width:100%; padding-top: 56.25%; position: relative;">
  <iframe style="width:100%; height: 100%;position: absolute; top: 50%; left: 50%; transform: translate(-50%,-50%);" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ey0N1Ry0BPM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

## Use feature detection and handle errors

The evergreen Googlebot has lots of new features, but some features are still not supported. Relying on unsupported features or not handling errors properly can mean Googlebot can't render or index your content. 

Let's look at an example:

```html
 <body>
   <script>
     navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(function onSuccess(position) {
       loadLocalContent(position);
     });
   </script>
 </body>
```

> This page might not show any content in some cases. The code doesn't handle when the user declines the permission or when getCurrentPosition call returns an error. Googlebot declines permission requests like this by default. This is a better solution:

Author: fixed!

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center w-figure--fullbleed">
  <img src="googlebot-process.png" alt="A diagram showing a URL moving from a crawling queue to a processing step that extracts linked URLs and adds them to the crawling queue, a rendering queue that feeds into a renderer which produces HTML. The processor uses this HTML to extract linked URLs again and index the content.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    Fig. 1 — Googlebot's pipeline for crawling, rendering and indexing a page.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

The process works like this:

1. Googlebot queues URLs for crawling.
2. It then fetches the URLs with an HTTP request based on the [crawl budget](https://webmasters.googleblog.com/2017/01/what-crawl-budget-means-for-googlebot.html).
3. Googlebot's next stage is scanning the HTML for links and queues the discovered links for crawling.
4. Googlebot then queues the page for rendering.
5. As soon as possible, a headless Chromium instance renders the page (JavaScript is executed here).
6. Googlebot uses the rendered HTML to index the page.

> Your technical setup can influence the process of crawling, rendering, and indexing. For example, slow response times or server errors can impact the [crawl budget](https://webmasters.googleblog.com/2017/01/what-crawl-budget-means-for-googlebot.html) and links that are only rendered with JavaScript can lead to a slower discovery of these links.

Author: Fixed (and rephrased a little)

## Choose the right rendering strategy for your web app

The default rendering strategy for single-page apps today is client-side rendering. The HTML loads the JavaScript which generates the content in the browser as it executes. 

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img src="spa-kittens.png" alt="A code box showing HTML that loads some scripts. A screenshot of a web page on mobile that shows placeholder images while loading the actual content.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">

>     The rendering strategy influences the performance and robustness of your web apps.

Reviewer: I'd suggest putting something in the main body of the post that makes it clear what this image is showing--like you did in the talk, where you explained that this is an app for showing cat images, and all of it is generated by JS.

  </figcaption>
</figure> 

> The rendering strategy of your website influences performance. It also has an impact on how bots like Googlebot interact with it. Server-side rendering or pre-rendering can improve the performance for users and crawlers. Those strategies execute JavaScript on the server to generate the initial HTML content. The browser can start rendering the HTML as it arrives over the network, making the page load faster.  The [rendering session at I/O](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-A2VfuUROg)  or [the blog post about rendering on the web](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2019/02/rendering-on-the-web) shows how server-side rendering and hydration can improve the performance and user experience of web apps with more examples of how these strategies are implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rendering strategy of your website influences performance. It also has an impact on how bots like Googlebot interact with it.

If you're free to choose your rendering strategy, consider server-side rendering or pre-rendering. They execute JavaScript on the server to generate the initial HTML content, which can improve performance for both users and crawlers. These strategies allow the browser to start rendering HTML as it arrives over the network, making the page load faster.  The [rendering session at I/O](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=k-A2VfuUROg)  or [the blog post about rendering on the web](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2019/02/rendering-on-the-web) shows how server-side rendering and hydration can improve the performance and user experience of web apps and provides more examples of how these strategies can be implemented.
```
Edits to help establish the distinction with the subsequent paragraph (can you pick your rendering strategy, or are you stuck with what you have?). Beyond that, need to define hydration. Or, even better, perhaps just say there are several strategies for increasing the amount of rendering done server-side, and that they can improve performance for both users and bots if used well. That way, you don't have to get into the weeds of the different server-side or hybrid strategies.

> If you are looking for a workaround to help crawlers that don't execute JavaScript or cannot make changes to your frontend codebase, consider [dynamic rendering](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/dynamic-rendering) - we also have [a codelab that you can try out](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/dynamic-rendering). Unlike server-side rendering or pre-rendering you won't get the user experience or performance benefits as dynamic rendering only serves static HTML to crawlers, so it's a workaround rather than a long-term strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're looking for a workaround to help crawlers that don't execute JavaScript—or if you can't make changes to your frontend codebase—consider [dynamic rendering](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/dynamic-rendering), which you can try out in [this codelab](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/dynamic-rendering). Note, though, that you won't get the user experience or performance benefits that you would with server-side rendering or pre-rendering because dynamic rendering only serves static HTML to crawlers. That makes it a stop-gap rather than a long-term strategy.
```

## Test your pages

> While most pages generally work fine with Googlebot, we recommend testing your pages regularly to make sure your content is available to Googlebot and there are no problems. The easiest way to do a quick check of a page is the [Mobile-Friendly Test](https://g.co/mobilefriendly). Besides showing you issues with mobile-friendliness, it also gives you a screenshot of the above-the-fold content and the rendered HTML as Googlebot sees it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While most pages generally work fine with Googlebot, we recommend testing your pages regularly to make sure your content is available to Googlebot and there are no problems. There are several great tools to help you do that.

The easiest way to do a quick check of a page is the [Mobile-Friendly Test](https://g.co/mobilefriendly). Besides showing you issues with mobile-friendliness, it also gives you a screenshot of the above-the-fold content and the rendered HTML as Googlebot sees it.
```
To help signal that you're going to introduce more than one tool.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="mobile-friendly-test-rendered-html.png" alt="The mobile-friendly test shows the rendered HTML Googlebot sees after rendering the page">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    The mobile-friendly test shows you the rendered HTML Googlebot uses.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

You can also find out if there are resource loading issues or JavaScript errors.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="mobile-friendly-test-js-error.png" alt="The Mobile-Friendly Test shows JavaScript errors and a stack trace.">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">

>     You can use the mobile-friendly test as well to find loading issues or JavaScript errors.

Reviewer: Consider omitting this caption. It repeats almost verbatim the sentence that came before.

Author: Done!

  </figcaption>
</figure>

> We recommend to verify your domain in [Google Search Console](https://g.co/searchconsole) so you can use the URL inspection tool to find out more about the crawling and indexing state of a URL, receive messages when we detect issues and find out more details of how your site performs in Google Search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Google Search Console](https://g.co/searchconsole) is another great resource. Its URL inspection tool lets you learn about the crawling and indexing state of a URL, receive messages when the crawler detects issues, and get details about how your site performs in Google Search.
```
To avoid using first person, per the Documentation Style Guide.

Author: I rewrote your suggestion a bit to keep it a recommendation (which it is)

  <img class="w-screenshot" src="search-console-url-inspection-tool.png" alt="The URL inspection tool showing a page that is indexed with information on discovery, crawling and indexing for one URL">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    The URL Inspection Tool in Search Console shows the status of a page in crawling, rendering, and indexing.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

For general SEO tips and guidance, you can use the SEO audits in Lighthouse. To integrate SEO audits into your testing suite, use the [Lighthouse CLI](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/tree/master/lighthouse-cli) or the [Lighthouse CI bot](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/lighthousebot).

<figure class="w-figure">
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="lighthouse-seo-audit-report.png" alt="A lighthouse SEO report with a score of 44 and warnings about mobile-friendliness as well as warnings about content best practices">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Lighthouse shows general SEO recommendations for a page.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

These tools help you identify, debug, and fix issues with pages in Google Search and should be part of your development routine.

## Stay up to date and get in touch

> If you want to stay up to date with announcements and changes, you should keep an eye on our [Webmasters Blog](https://webmasters.googleblog.com), the [Google Webmasters Youtube channel](https://youtube.com/GoogleWebmasterHelp), and our [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/googlewmc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To stay up to date with announcements and changes to Google Search, keep an eye on our [Webmasters Blog](https://webmasters.googleblog.com), the [Google Webmasters Youtube channel](https://youtube.com/GoogleWebmasterHelp), and our [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/googlewmc).
```
For concision.

> Also check out our [developer guide to Google Search](http://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/) and our [JavaScript SEO video series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXF8bM4g-J4&list=PLKoqnv2vTMUPOalM1zuWDP9OQl851WMM9) to learn more on SEO and JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also check out our [developer guide to Google Search](http://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/) and our [JavaScript SEO video series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXF8bM4g-J4&list=PLKoqnv2vTMUPOalM1zuWDP9OQl851WMM9) to learn more about SEO and JavaScript.
```
Preposition fix.

tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - seo
  - discoverability
  - javascript
---

## Meet the evergreen Googlebot

This year we announced the much-awaited [new evergreen Googlebot](https://webmasters.googleblog.com/2019/05/the-new-evergreen-googlebot.html).

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
  <img src="evergreen-googlebot.png" alt="Googlebot holding the Chrome logo" style="max-width: 400px;">
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Googlebot is now running a modern Chromium rendering engine.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

Googlebot now uses a modern Chromium engine to render websites for Google Search. On top of that, we will test newer versions of Chromium to _keep_ Googlebot updated, usually within a few weeks of each stable Chrome release. This announcement is big news for web developers and SEOs because it marks the arrival of [1000+ new features](https://caniuse.com/#compare=chrome+41,chrome+74) — such as ES6+, `IntersectionObserver`, and Web Components v1 — in Googlebot. 

> Great things are happening with Google Search, and we were excited to share them at Google I/O 2019! You should check out the [session about new and upcoming features](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ufcijo46LCU&list=PLKoqnv2vTMUPsSoDoVlUlgVkyh0OfjB-x) if you want a general overview. But in this post we're focusing on the JavaScript and Google Search session, where we talked about best practices for making JavaScript web apps discoverable in Google Search, including:

Reviewer 2: Let's embed the video using this snippet:

```
<div style="width:100%; padding-top: 56.25%; position: relative;">
<iframe style="width:100%; height: 100%;position: absolute; top: 50%; left:
50%; transform: translate(-50%,-50%);"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ufcijo46LCU" frameborder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
```

---
title: JavaScript and Google Search
subhead: Updates and insights from Google I/O 2019
authors:
  - martinsplitt
  - ekharvey
date: 2019-06-03
hero: hero.png
alt: A website with placeholder images instead of real cat images in the URL inspection tool within Search Console.
description: |
  We introduced a new Googlebot at Google I/O and took this opportunity to discuss improvements and best practices for JavaScript web apps in Google Search.
tags:
  - post # post is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - seo
  - discoverability
  - javascript
---

## Meet the evergreen Googlebot

This year Google I/O brought exciting news around Google Search and JavaScript: the much-awaited announcement of the [new evergreen Googlebot](https://webmasters.googleblog.com/2019/05/the-new-evergreen-googlebot.html).

> <figure class="w-figure">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center">
```

Looks a bit nicer centered

  </figcaption>
</figure>

Googlebot now uses a modern Chromium engine to render websites for Google Search. On top of that, we test newer versions of Chromium to keep Googlebot updated in the future. We will update Googlebot within a few weeks of a stable Chrome release. This announcement is big news for web developers and SEOs, because it marks the arrival of [1000+ new features](https://caniuse.com/#compare=chrome+41,chrome+74), such as ES6+, IntersectionObserver, and Web Components v1 in Googlebot. 

While the [session on new and upcoming features in Google Search](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ufcijo46LCU&list=PLKoqnv2vTMUPsSoDoVlUlgVkyh0OfjB-x) focused on new and upcoming features, we also had a session on JavaScript and Google Search. In this session we shared more details on improving JavaScript-driven web apps. We looked at:

*   Feature detection and error handling
*   Googlebot's pipeline for crawling, rendering and indexing
*   Rendering strategies
*   Testing tools for your website in Google Search
*   Common challenges and possible solutions
*   Best practices for SEO in JavaScript web apps

Here's the full video:

> <iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ey0N1Ry0BPM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div style="width:100%; padding-top: 56.25%; position: relative;">
  <iframe style="width:100%; height: 100%;position: absolute; top: 50%; left: 50%; transform: translate(-50%,-50%);" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ey0N1Ry0BPM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>
```

This will center the video and make it responsive.

## Use feature detection and handle errors

The evergreen Googlebot has lots of new features, but some features are still not supported. Relying on unsupported features or not handling errors properly can mean Googlebot can't render or index your content. 

Let's look at an example:

```html
 <body>
   <script>
     navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(function onSuccess(position) {
       loadLocalContent(position);

>      })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     });
```

   </script>
 </body>
```

This page might not show any content in some cases. The code doesn't handle when the user declines the permission or when getCurrentPosition call returns an error. Googlebot declines permission requests like this by default. This is a better solution:

```html
 <body>
   <script>
     if (navigator.geolocation) {
       // this browser supports the Geolocation API, request location!
       navigator.geolocation.getCurrentPosition(
         function onSuccess(position) {
           // we successfully got the location, show local content
           loadLocalContent(position);
         }, function onError() {
           // we failed to get the location, show fallback content
           loadGlobalContent();

>          })

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         });
```

     } else {
       // this browser does not support the Geolocation API, show fallback content
       loadGlobalContent();
     }
   </script>
 </body>

```

If you have problems with your JavaScript site, [walk through our troubleshooting guide](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/fix-search-javascript) to find solutions.

## Learn how Googlebot works

Googlebot is a pipeline with different components. Let's take a look at this pipeline to understand how Googlebot indexes pages for Google Search.

> <figure class="w-figure w-figure--fullbleed">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<figure class="w-figure w-figure--center w-figure--fullbleed">
```

Should help centering the caption with the image.

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption w-figcaption--fullbleed">
    Fig. 1 — Googlebot's pipeline for crawling, rendering and indexing a page.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

The process works like this:

1. Googlebot queues URLs for crawling.
2. It then fetches the URLs with an HTTP request based on the [crawl budget](https://webmasters.googleblog.com/2017/01/what-crawl-budget-means-for-googlebot.html).
3. Googlebot's next stage is scanning the HTML for links and queues the discovered links for crawling.
4. Googlebot then queues the page for rendering.
5. As soon as possible, a headless Chromium instance renders the page (JavaScript is executed here).
6. Googlebot uses the rendered HTML to index the page.

Your technical setup can influence the process of crawling, rendering, and indexing. For example, slow response times or server errors can impact the [crawl budget](https://webmasters.googleblog.com/2017/01/what-crawl-budget-means-for-googlebot.html) and links that are only rendered with JavaScript can lead to a slower discovery of these links.

## Choose the right rendering strategy for your web app

> The default rendering strategy for single-page apps today is client-side rendering. The HTML is loading the JavaScript which is generating the entire content in the browser as it executes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default rendering strategy for single-page apps today is client-side rendering. The HTML loads the JavaScript which generates the content in the browser as it executes. 
```

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img src="spa-kittens.png" alt="A code box showing HTML that loads some scripts. A screenshot of a web page on mobile that shows placeholder images while loading the actual content." style="max-width: 400px;">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img src="spa-kittens.png" alt="A code box showing HTML that loads some scripts. A screenshot of a web page on mobile that shows placeholder images while loading the actual content.">
```

If you are looking for a workaround to help crawlers that don't execute JavaScript or cannot make changes to your frontend codebase, consider [dynamic rendering](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/dynamic-rendering) - we also have [a codelab that you can try out](https://codelabs.developers.google.com/codelabs/dynamic-rendering). Unlike server-side rendering or pre-rendering you won't get the user experience or performance benefits as dynamic rendering only serves static HTML to crawlers, so it's a workaround rather than a long-term strategy.

## Test your pages

While most pages generally work fine with Googlebot, we recommend testing your pages regularly to make sure your content is available to Googlebot and there are no problems. The easiest way to do a quick check of a page is the [Mobile-Friendly Test](https://g.co/mobilefriendly). Besides showing you issues with mobile-friendliness, it also gives you a screenshot of the above-the-fold content and the rendered HTML as Googlebot sees it.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img src="mobile-friendly-test-rendered-html.png" alt="The mobile-friendly test shows the rendered HTML Googlebot sees after rendering the page" style="max-width: 400px;">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="mobile-friendly-test-rendered-html.png" alt="The mobile-friendly test shows the rendered HTML Googlebot sees after rendering the page">
```

For images that don't have a distinct border all the way around you can add the w-screenshot class which will give them a thin border.

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    The mobile-friendly test shows you the rendered HTML Googlebot uses.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

You can also find out if there are resource loading issues or JavaScript errors.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img src="mobile-friendly-test-js-error.png" alt="The Mobile-Friendly Test shows JavaScript errors and a stack trace." style="max-width: 400px;">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="mobile-friendly-test-js-error.png" alt="The Mobile-Friendly Test shows JavaScript errors and a stack trace.">
```

Reviewer 2: Even at full width the text in this image is a little tough to read. Might be worth capturing the image again with the browser font size boosted?

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    You can use the mobile-friendly test as well to find loading issues or JavaScript errors.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

We recommend to verify your domain in [Google Search Console](https://g.co/searchconsole) so you can use the URL inspection tool to find out more about the crawling and indexing state of a URL, receive messages when we detect issues and find out more details of how your site performs in Google Search.

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img src="search-console-url-inspection-tool.png" alt="The URL inspection tool showing a page that is indexed with information on discovery, crawling and indexing for one URL" style="max-width: 400px;">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="search-console-url-inspection-tool.png" alt="The URL inspection tool showing a page that is indexed with information on discovery, crawling and indexing for one URL">
```

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    The URL Inspection Tool in Search Console shows the status of a page in crawling, rendering, and indexing.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

For general SEO tips and guidance, you can use the SEO audits in Lighthouse. To integrate SEO audits into your testing suite, use the [Lighthouse CLI](https://github.com/GoogleChrome/lighthouse/tree/master/lighthouse-cli) or the [Lighthouse CI bot](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/lighthousebot).

<figure class="w-figure">

>   <img src="lighthouse-seo-audit-report.png" alt="A lighthouse SEO report with a score of 44 and warnings about mobile-friendliness as well as warnings about content best practices" style="max-width: 400px;">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="lighthouse-seo-audit-report.png" alt="A lighthouse SEO report with a score of 44 and warnings about mobile-friendliness as well as warnings about content best practices">
```

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Lighthouse shows general SEO recommendations for a page.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

These tools help you identify, debug, and fix issues with pages in Google Search and should be part of your development routine.

## Stay up to date and get in touch

If you want to stay up to date with announcements and changes, you should keep an eye on our [Webmasters Blog](https://webmasters.googleblog.com), the [Google Webmasters Youtube channel](https://youtube.com/GoogleWebmasterHelp), and our [Twitter account](https://twitter.com/googlewmc).

Also check out our [developer guide to Google Search](http://developers.google.com/search/docs/guides/) and our [JavaScript SEO video series](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LXF8bM4g-J4&list=PLKoqnv2vTMUPOalM1zuWDP9OQl851WMM9) to learn more on SEO and JavaScript.

> <!--

Reviewer 2: Can delete this big comment.

Author: done!
